PoW is a powerful form of demonstratable and quantifiable effort but does not very usefully scale as networks grow.
Mining should be more about processing transactions AND keeping the network secure than an arms race to consume useful energy.

PoS is the embodiment of "putting your money where your mouth is” but matters very little in small scale networks where the risk of staking is near equivalent.

PoA is the embodiment of trust. Cryptography can ensure a party is who they say they are (technically have what they demonstrate they have), but trust is slowly accrued and easily eroded.

Some key questions to be answered by this research:
- Can small, self-organizing PoW networks benefit from higher, and possibly more malleable, PoS or PoA network?
- How might transactions across networks look like?
  - Is this possible to model probabilistically?

Some questions I'd like to answer in general:
- How might PoW be replaced with something less selfish, require collaboration, and be beneficial?
  - Aggregating and funneling the computation power of the bitcoin network into something both useful and providing security to the network would be groundbreaking.
  - The game theory of mining really does lead to selfish mining attacks.
  - It's quicker to validate a NN than train it, but it isn't exactly quick.

Some thoughts:
- There's something very libertarian about decentralized systems that sputter into life as an idea and solidify by adoption. While a bit of an oversimplification, the bitcoin network will exist as long as one person uses it. There's something beautiful about that.
- Game theory is a big part of making a decentralized system like bitcoin work. Peers "need to want" to contribute, and all peers being at the same level is a powerful thing.
- Being decentralized comes at costs. Many aspects that are commonly hidden come to light. All N peers must deal with all N-1 peers. One bad peer means all N peers must deal with them in some way. Collaboration allows for offloading/specialization but simultaneously creates centralization. 
- Is PoWA viable? Authorized miners seem like a nice way to possibly segment networks apart.
  - Maybe users declare an "alignment" and all miners group transactions by alignment into their own chains.